QuakeStyle Unbound consists of three parts.

1. The mod itself, qsunbound.pk3. Load this first. It has all the new weapons, graphical changes, monsters, underlying code, and powerups that were carried over from QuakeStyle ZX and altered, plus many totally new additions.

2. Monster Closet, qsub-MonsterCloset.pk3. This adds loads of new enemies with more on the way in future updates. It also rearranges spawners to spice things up and better distribute the new enemies.

3. The Weapon Wheel, qsub-WeaponWheel.pk3. Exactly what it sounds like. This contains a weapon and item selection wheel with keys to bind the controls and options in the Gameplay Settings menu to tweak it all to your liking.

NOTE: This mod is NOT compatible with software rendering, due to the extensive use of dynamic lighting and colors beyond the standard set of 256. the mod will run in software mode, but you will be missing out on a few things, namely the flashlight, and some objects won't appear quite right. Additionally, the Weapon Wheel relies on the use of key combos to check its input, namely strafe+moveup and strafe+movedown. As such, these key combos will not work normally with the Weapon Wheel in place.

After qsunbound.pk3, load the other two modules in either order.

You'll find credits for the mods in the Documentation folder. For Monster Closet, each new monster is contained in its own separate archive along with credits. For classes, you'll find sprite credits in 0Sprites.wad. We are still working on credits for the base mod, but most of it is taken care of.

On the ACS front, RECOVER, MOONBEAM, and REVOLVER belong to Jay. DBLJUMP and SIDESTEP authors can be found in their source files. SCOUTER was created by spaceman333. TNTFLOOR, BONUSES, GETAMMOS, and GETARMOR were created by me. Use them as you see fit, provided you give credit in your mod.

You'll find the email addresses of each author within qsunbound.pk3. Contact me or Xterra for questions, requests, suggestions and critiques regarding QuakeStyle ZX or Unbound, or if you'd like to send us a million dollars. Contact Jay for questions, requests, suggestions, and critiques regarding the original QuakeStyle, DOOM Gaiden, DOOMZone, or ZAGE, or if you'd like to send him a million dollars.

-TBG